All right.
So in order to use UserDefault, we have to create a brand-new object.
So let's call it defaults and we'll set it to equal UserDefaults which is an interface to the user's
default's database where you store key-value pairs persistently across launches of your app.
That's exactly what we want.
So let's hit UserDefaults and we're gonna set up a standard UserDefault.
So, now that we've got that setup, we can go down to the part where we add a new item to our to-do list
and we append it to our itemArray which is this thing here.
Now, what we can do is we can save that updated item array to our UserDefaults and we can do that in
a single line of code by writing
defaults.set and we're going to use value for key which takes any object,
and in this case, it's going to be an array or rather self.itemArray
because, remember, we're inside a closure here.
And the key is going to identify this array inside our UserDefaults.
So let's call it "TodoListArray."
And, of course, because we're inside a closure, we have to add "self" to our defaults as well, and see if
it works.
All right, let's go ahead and add a new item.
Hit Add Item, shows up in our table view,
But as you'll see, if I delete our app and reopen it again, it does not show up.
And the reason is not because our code didn't work or that we didn't manage to save our item array into
our defaults,
the reason is because we haven't used our saved item to load up the TableView.
It's still getting all of that data from our itemArray which does not persist.
Remember? But we can actually view our data inside our UserDefaults and we can prove that the data has
been saved.
Now, UserDefaults get saved in a plist file, and that's why everything you put in there has to be a
key-value pair.
So you always need a key that you're going to use to retrieve the item, and then you add the value.
It could be anything.
It could be an array. It could be a dictionary, string,
any data type in there. And you can grab it back using this key.
So how can we find our UserDefaults file so that we can see our data? In order to do that,
we need to grab the file path of our sandbox that our app runs, we need to get the ID of the simulator,
and we also need the ID of the sandbox where our app lives in.
Now, it sounds a little bit complicated, but it's actually quite simple.
Let's go into our AppDelegate at the
"didFinishLaunchingWithOptions"
delegate method which we know always gets called.
And here, we're going to write a little bit of code in order to printout the path for our UserDefaults
file.
Now, at this point, if you want to follow along with me and see this file path, make sure that you run
your app inside the simulator, and not a physical device, and also that you've added a new item to your
table view.
So let's go ahead and print this search path.
So it's NSSearchPathForDirectoriesInDomains and the directory is the documentDirectory and
the domain mask is the userDomainMask and expand tilde will go for true,
and then we're going to get the last item in this array, and we're going to print it as a string.
Now, don't worry too much about this line.
I'm just using it to print and to prove to you that our data has been saved somewhere, even though it's
not showing up.
So let's run our app again. And as soon as our app launches, we can see this file path here.
Now, we can use that file path to go into our Finder and try and locate this plist file that stores
our data.
So this starts off in our root which is our Macintosh hard drive,
and then we're supposed to go into users,
and this is my user name on this laptop,
and then we're going to go into Library, Developer,
CoreSimulator, Devices,and we have to search for this 8D49.
It looks like that one.
So this is the device ID.
So this is called a UUID, and it identifies our device uniquely, so that could be our simulated device
or it could be a physical device.
So this corresponds to this particular simulated instance that I've got launched here. And then I have
to go in into Data, Containers, Data again, Application, and then I have to search for the Application.
And that refers to the unique ID of this Todoey application that I've launched earlier on where I
saved my data.
So, now we're entering the sandbox, essentially, and this is going to be called E5.
So let's look for something that is E5. Now a much easier way to do this would actually be sorting
this or searching it,
but I found it right there.
So E50.
This is basically our app, Todoey. Now, it would be easier if they called it Todoey,
but then that wouldn't be unique.
So here's our app sandbox.
And once you've gotten here, you're going to look inside Library and Preferences.
And now, finally, you get to your plist,
and if we expand it, you can see that it says,
"com.londonbrewery.Todoey/plist.
Now, if we double click on it, it'll open by default inside Xcode, and you'll see that we have this key
that we used earlier on where we said save it under the key "TodoListArray," TodoListArray here,
that's the key, and the value is an array. So Swift is clever enough to figure out that our item, the data
type was an array data type.
And if we expand this, we can see that there's four items in there,
and our latest item was in fact saved.
So why is it not showing up in our table view?
Well, it's because we haven't used it to retrieve the data.
Now, all we need to do in order to retrieve our data is we can go into viewDidLoad and we can set our
itemArray to equal the array inside our UserDefaults.
So itemArray = defaults.array forKey,
the key is, of course, "TodoListArray."
Let's just double check because it's a hardcoded key.
Just make sure that it's exactly spelt the same.
Yeah, looks good.
And we're going to cast this as an array of strings.
So that's all very well and good if our TodoListArray actually exists. But if it doesn't, then our
app is probably going to crash.
So to prevent this,
instead, we can write this as if let items = defaults.array forKey as array of strings,
And if that works, then, let's say, itemArray is now equal to items. And we can get rid of that force
downcast,
make it an optional.
So, now let's run our app and see if it works.
Hey.
So our last item that we saw inside the plist now exists inside our table view,
and also if I add any new items, then it also shows up in our table view. And you can see it appear both
in the UserDefault plist, as well as when we terminate our app and reopen it.
So that was a quick intro into how we can use UserDefaults to persist data.
Now, in the next lesson, we're going to talk about the UserDefault in a little bit more detail and talk about
which scenarios and situations should you be using this.
So all of that and more on the next lesson.
See you there.